The next section is one of
my most favorite topics,
data structures, all right?
So data structures are used in programming
languages to store a collection
of objects in such a way that operations
can be performed on the collection.
Java provides this collections framework,
which consists of interfaces, classes, and
methods to store and manipulate data.
So you can think of
the collections framework as
basically Java's data structures and
algorithms.
Now there are multiple
collections in Java,
we'll focus on four of
the most common ones,
the set, list, queue, and map.
So a set is an unordered
collection of unique objects.
An example use case for a set would be
a standard deck of 52 playing cards,
where each card would be
an element in this collection, and
each of them are unique, so
there's no duplicates in set.
All right, so let's make a program,
we're gonna work with fruit today.
We're going to create a set of fruit.
And let's make a new package now.
We'll call this one, data_structures.
And I'm gonna make one class and we're
gonna put different methods in there for
each of the collections so that you
have everything kinda in one place.
So we'll call this CollectionsDemo.
And I'll make a method called setDemo.
Not set, like setter, but
set, like the collection.
Before we go deep into that, let's just
make a main method that we'll call that,
otherwise we'll try to run this and
nothing will happen.
This needs to be static.
Okay, so
we want to make a set of fruits, right?
Set is a collection.
Let's go ahead and import it.
It comes from the java.util package.
Set is an interface,
right, which means what?
We cannot instantiate it.
So I'll call this fruits.
So we need to use one of
its implementing classes.
Notice here they give you some examples,
HashSet, AbstractSet,
SortedSet TreeSet, blah, blah, blah.
A popular implementation is HashSet,
let's just use that one.
Okay, and
I would need to import that as well.
So now we have a new collection
that does not contain anything yet.
In order to add things to a collection,
we can say fruits.add.
Add takes an object.
So collections are a group of objects,
right, not primitive data types.
If you needed to put a set of primitive
data types, how would you do that?
>> So it would be a list or an array?
>> No, if you specifically
want one of these collections,
a set or something like that, but you
needed to put values that are numbers or
something like that,
how would you go about doing this?
>> The wrapper?
>> The wrapper classes.
So remember we talked about wrapper
classes and they are the object forms
of the primitive data types,
since collections can only take objects.
If I needed a set of numbers,
I would use integers,
because that becomes an object versus int,
which is the primitive data type.
All right, so
let's go ahead and add apple.
And we'll add a banana.
So, by default,
because I've added a string,
that means that this collection
holds string values, all right?
They can hold any sort of object,
but for sets at least,
it needs to be the same type of object,
all right?
Add a banana, let's go ahead and
add one more for now, maybe a lemon.
Okay, I wanna print this so far.
So we added an apple, we added a banana,
and then we added a lemon.
When we, sorry,
I need to print something out, right?
So let's go ahead and
add a print statement.
To print this,
you simply write the collection name and
it'll print it out for you.
So we'll run this again.
And notice it's showing
the three fruits but
it's not showing them in
the order that we added them in.
That's because a set is
an unordered collection.
So if it's important to you to model
something where the order matters,
set is not a good option for that.
Because it just puts it
in any random order.
This order can even change,
if I ran this again or something,
it might be a totally different order.
So it adds it, but
it doesn't keep them in order.
All right, let's add another
apple and see what happens.
So I don't have an error.
If I run this though,
notice I don't have two apples either.
That's because sets contain unique items.
There cannot be duplicate items.
Remember the deck of playing cards, right?
You don't want two king of
hearts in there, right?
So you cannot have duplicate items.
It won't complain about it.
It just simply will not add it again.
>> If you care about the specific
position of these different objects,
Would you want to use some
kind of variation on an array?
>> We will use something else.
One of the other four we'll talk about,
yeah.
Some of them allow or
are ordered, some of them don't.
Okay, so let's say that we wanna
know if the set contains something.
We didn't do all of these ads,
we basically got this collection as
a parameter or something like that.
And so it's come to us and
we need to see, hey,
does this thing contain something?
There is a method that you can use for
that.
So let's just do a print statement.
And we wanna see if it contains a lemon.
We can say, let's just do contains lemon.
And then we'll append this
with fruits.contains(),
and then we can ask it,
do you contain a lemon?
And we'll get a Boolean value back.
So if I ran this, I see that it says true.
We do have a lemon in here.
What about if I want to remove
an element from a collection?
I can do that as well.
So to remove an element
from the collection,
we use the collection name and
then I can just say remove.
And inside of remove,
I specify the object I want removed.
So, I'll actually put
this above the check for
lemon so we can see that change.
So now I've removed the lemon and
then I'll ask, is the lemon there?
And this time I have false.
So I printed the fruits before
I remove the lemon, and
then I asked about the lemon being there.
If I need to know the size
of the collection,
I can say size and then fruits.size.
Just call the size method.
So again, this collection provides
a lot of convenience methods so
that you can easily work with the data.
So we have 2 after we've
removed the lemon.
So notice here when we
add a fruit to this set,
we had to do a line for
each fruit that we wanted to add.
And so this is four lines of
code to add those four things.
There's another way that you
can set the initial data.
So let's create another set.
We'll call this one moreFruit.
And we can say set.of.
Set.of will allow you to add however many
objects to this collection
that you want to.
So I'll say pear,
raisin, and a cherry.
So this is nice, it looks really easy.
You're probably thinking,
well, I'm gonna just do that.
Be careful,
because if you utilize this set.of method,
then this set would be immutable,
who remembers what immutable means?
>> You can't change it,
>> You cannot change it.
So you would not be able
to add anything else.
You will not be able to
remove anything else.
In fact, if I tried to add,
it's not gonna complain.
So if I say morefruit.add,
let's put a cranberry in there,
notice I don't get a compilation error,
however, let's go ahead and
just say print this.
When I run this, Notice
it exploded, and it exploded,
Right here when I tried to add
a fruit to this immutable list, and
it says unsupported operation,
basically I cannot modify this.
Same would happen if I did remove.
Now I can do the other things, like
check if it contains something or things
that are not modifying the collection
>> Is that just going off purely off
the values, so it has the pear,
the raisin, and
the cherry can contain nothing else.
What if you wanted to remove the cherry,
add the cranberry in its place,
would that be valid?
>> No, you cannot change this list.
>> Okay, so it cannot be changed cuz it
cannot be changed, not necessarily cuz
there's a certain spot in memory
where only a certain value can exist.
>> No.
>> Okay, I'm thinking about those arrays,
with a set number of spots in that array.
>> Yeah.
>> And if you try to go over that limit,
it doesn't work.
But if you were to change and
remove something out to free
up that space, then you could.
That's just where my head was going.
>> Okay.